Full Silver Edge — wow, yep, strong stuff.

Oh, let's spot it out — that's the Demon Zeal! Zeal pops — you're going to be able to take out Dawnbreaker in quick succession here. Karl looking to potentially go in — pops the BKB, Ame does the same. Doom actually applied to Ame, but he's already in Metamorphosis. Big, big fight here. Karl has used everything he wants — that's a huge RP from Kuku though, and the right play for 23savage, just decimating LGD! He's stuck in place, but the damage — he actually does it! He's getting kited from afar though, as 23savage with that Split Shot modifier goes to work on LGD overall. Xepher getting pressured down from afar — the Thunder God's Wrath was definitely used, as you see Ame use it multiple times. Faith_bian finally comes back to the fight, trying to kite Medusa as much as possible, trying to lifesteal. Double kill for 23savage. Finally, he will go down — does have buyback. And Ame's going to expend his.

XinQ working on Karl right now — burning him down with that Infernal Blade. Fissure nicely done — blocks off Karl completely. Faith_bian on the wrong side though. Yeah, Karl has no buyback. That's that magic immunity. 23savage buys back into the game — looks like they want to try to finish this one way or the other. Cinderin in there. Karl jumps in on NothingToSay with the Finger of Death — down he goes! Double kill for him. Buyback again from LGD — five versus five assuming nobody has buyback at this point. Good gaming — and they continue to fight here, or do they want to back? Oh, the Fissure on the wrong side provides enough space for 23savage to get away safely.

This game is insane. Secret sees everybody. Uh oh — no! Oh, this could be bad for LGD. They gotta get out of there. Take down the vision to start. Now the Avalanche catches onto XinQ. Secret trying to back away — a little bit awkward with the stun afterward with that Shard, but the toss back onto the creep — in fact, almost going to stun himself! Oh my god, but some unbelievable play there. With the Hookshot in, trying to keep Matumbaman alive and from dropping too low. Matumbaman in trouble, but the Cogs pushback — almost gets him into the low ground. He's able to get away. Sonic Wave on the other side. Nisha now isolated — silenced — no answer — dead. They take down another.

How can they keep him alive? Oh my god, they bring him down once. Where’s the rest of the team? They walk back out with the Clockwerk — he’s not with the rest of the team yet. Ame trying to live — gets the ulti off, down to low HP. Matumbaman needs a couple more to do it, but the turn with the BKB — they don’t have the control. Zai pulls something to the other side. Faith_bian tries to salvage this — everybody is alive — and the Echo Slam afterwards! Yes — you gotta be kidding me. YapzOr trying to salvage this. Zai now pulls him away, but there’s no more damage left from LGD. Secret — can they find any cleanup kills? Yo, what is happening?! These fights are unbelievable. Un-freaking-believable.

Y’ — going to get caught right there. Another Skewer back — the pullback! NothingToSay trying to walk out of there. Secret — Swindle the fear! Oh my god, dude — the Death Prophet — unbelievable! Spirit Siphon ends up getting him with the Shard. And now they walk back in. Zai able to live again. Dude — how long has this fight been happening? Zai ends up dying to XinQ. They're knocking on the door now. They've got vision up on their own, but they want to be ready for this Puck ultimate. The Daedalus is done, so if they get caught out from this — Paparazzi’s the first one forward. It's only the clone. Mind_Control gets the Hoof Stomp. They want that extra time to attack — even with the Phantom's Embrace, they slow him down. They just want to break him. But then Paparazzi — he'll burn off the Satanic. Mind_Control Stampedes away.

These BKBs have been burned, so even if Paparazzi does have the Aegis, he’s got to be careful. They can kill him twice over. But the Spark Wraiths keep doing their work. They've run out of the creep wave. The midlane’s not there either. There's only so much they can do — there's Fortification still available for Liquid. They need to clean up the second wave that's coming in right now. Miracle sends the clone in. Paparazzi still low on life, but Satanic — eight seconds and it's back up again. But there goes your creep wave! How many clones must die for the service of Team Liquid?

Paparazzi runs forward — he's getting hit by the Fire Spirits. Doesn’t really slow down his attack that much. They still want to beat through the tower. He got the real one! The Linkens came way too late — but the fact they have to get him in the fight. Miracle — he has to buy back, no other choice. Vici Gaming are in their home and must be repelled. Dy sends both of his Golems over. Miracle — in fact, all three of them are trying to keep him zoned down. But Kuro — he gets the Soulbind together! Can’t go anywhere. Ori is trapped as well. Mind_Control keeping the chain control there. Miracle actually survives even with the three Golems! They don’t care — they want to keep the pressure going. There’s no Miracle to fight this one out. He’s just got the clone. Only Mind_Control on a beast tick of life.

But Vici Gaming — they want to force the issue. But it seems so damn bloody hard. Miracle is not free to kill — even in death, he fights it out. Ori wants to get back out again — he'll have to buy back in. This is like The Burning Crusade. Mind_Control — where’s your attack? Where’s your stun? He Force Staffs him back up again. Mind_Control’s now the one being attacked — back at the base for Vici Gaming. They committed every single buyback they've got — and there’s no one else to come back. It’s literally Warlock versus the world. And he may go down here. Here comes Kuro — but he doesn’t see him. He actually hits the stun though, inside the trees! The Glimmer Cape will wear off in a second. GH — he's going to check the trees. He's going to look for Dy. Mid lane's being pressured in the meantime as well. They're attacking the Tier 3 now. Dy — trapped out. From Vici Gaming — they are all going to be dead if Dy will finally bloody die.

Wait — that's going for the fight back! w33ha — what's poppin'? He picked up a Desolator. He’s gone for the Dream Coil. They all must go! There was one attack — Toby’s Lina attack was midair — it would have killed Phoenix and Puck with no buyback. Instead — they’re still changing the gameplay. It isn't too productive — but no, unlike Medusa with two Aghanim's, Entities coming out. They're going for it. Oh — they’re killing them pretty low again! The disarm’s just really rendering this Medusa completely useless for now. He’s out of mana as well. Matthew’s got to be cautious. It’s Crystallis — he’s stepping back in. He’s held back by the Grip — he needs help. Is there anything from Fishman? And there’s the shield! Just in time — keeping Crystallis alive. Healed up as well behind the Missile. They’ll get Crystallis pretty much back up to full HP. Matthew — another Mystic Flare coming crashing down onto his head. He’ll be hit — get another burst of damage from the Keeper of the Light. But he’s still being surrounded. Zai locks down Crystallis. Deafening Blast again — pushing back the Medusa. Matthew just can’t attack. He’ll put them through the Manta Style. The Arena from Zai — holding back Crystallis from him. But Matthew is still full. Toby’s back in with the Burrowstrike and the Sandstorm. That’s a triple kill for Toby!

He's going to keep it going. They're over towards mid. Game — mid lane locked down by Crystallis. Crystallis jumps out. Zai — he's ready to chase forward. Boxi — Matumbaman — this is a Tiny ready to go for more. As he's on top of Matumbaman — but Matumbaman, he needs help. But he’s lost two of his heroes — both Micke and Insania are down for two minutes. Zai desperately trying to bait them out of this. He's got the BKB back up — pops Force Staff to kite, but without the Radiance, does he have enough damage? He’s trying his best. Crystallis — still — he's just getting constantly sustained by Fishman. They can’t kill this Tiny. Massive surround. They’ll see Boxi — he can slide himself away, but Storm is going to be in with the catch. Jump — Storm — Tornado to finish him off.

Matu — all on his own. As Entity — they’ve got everybody up and ready to clean him up as well. There’s Liquid. Everybody — you had these two teams as your bottom two!

That’s the backline. He didn’t actually lock down Moon. He will be able to finish operating Timbersaw — who doesn’t have buyback. KP is almost dead, but look at that — trapped inside the trees. The Guardian Greaves and Lotus barely goes off in time. He’s being kited right now. Nisha looking to be able to finish off KP, but he’s so tanky. The Ogre's good — MidOne pummeling them with the Tree Volley — doing his best as possible. But Moon — he's getting any access to some damage out. Miraculously able to finish off the Ogre. He does have buyback. MidOne — he also dies as well. Moon’s able to chase him down into the high ground. Nisha — man — fighting against NinjaBoogie. He gets one. Can he get two? He gets three — but no, he's going to die here. He does have the Aegis — so a second life, though. Nikobaby and KP sit on top of him. They need to be able to chase him down. They Fireblast once. Fireblast twice. Ice Blast is forced out — that’s not going to hit. The Tree Volley over the top! They're going to be able to turn — they’re going to be able to play! And they bring down those! One second for the blink on Nikobaby. Another way back! They have the silence though. Three versus four — Nikobaby can’t actually go up. The second life of the Wraith King — but one second and silence. Thank you.