This triple melee composition that has the Neeko engage — you can basically go onto anyone. The Ahri is not going to be safe. The Jayce is certainly not going to be safe. And this immobile AD carry in the Miss Fortune has a pretty weak frontline, frankly. T1 will be looking for that, as they have a great angle here with Keria on the flank. He doesn't have six, but just a root would be enough to deny Delight's entry. And it looks like Hanwha Life Esports have just lost interest in the whole thing, and they're just going to give it over to T1.

Yep, not going to be Grubs. Peanut instead just going to head towards this bottom side jungle, look to steal that one away — and maybe also worry, because Doran does have his TP available now, right? His was a lot earlier on cooldown. If that play had worked and they had been able to pick off Oner, I think they definitely would have gone for it. Those trades — a lot of value out of that one. Gold incredibly even, as we can see.

Now Zeyu moving forward. Peanut’s here though. He's even got Cease and Desist — it’s going to be used by Faker as he hijacks it away. And there it is — returned in kind. Zeyu will finally claim the first blood. These critical items — there were so many Wukongs that Peanut just had to watch the army of monkeys heading towards the Vi.

Alright, Cease and Desist comes out. Peanut just starting this fight as he flashes away. Pop Blossom to stop any sort of follow-up. Now Peanut is just alone in the enemy jungle. Bullet Time comes through — it does get a bit of damage down, but it's not going to kill anyone. Now Faker, with that Spirit Rush available, looking to try and close in on the rest of HLE.

What was that, Peanut? Item spikes be damned — if you go in alone 1v3 into the enemy jungle, having just two spike advantage doesn’t really matter.

Now Zeus is fighting against Doran. They are — I was going to say — trading ultimates, which I guess is kind of true, but Jayce doesn’t really have one. As Doran throws out the Needlework — location did give him some trouble before.

Gumayusi could be in trouble as once again Cease and Desist comes down. He does have flash — so he's going to use it. Bullet Time coming on in, as the Cyclone is there from Oner, defending his AD carry. The flash not quite working. Now Doran throwing some Needlework towards Peanut, who wants to get himself away — and does. Vault Breaker out. Charm will connect.

Now Doran could be in a bit of trouble to survive, but the Rift’s still up and T1 are going to take even more this game. It’s Peanut again — disconnected on the other side. But it’s Oner who goes for the punish. Oner has just been shutting him down in these big fights, where there’s just a big discrepancy between where Peanut is, the targets he's chosen, and Hanwha Life’s ability to follow up at range.

If they want to win this — there comes Doran in again. Coming through from everyone. Zeyu going to make his way over. Let’s see whether this soul point can be denied. Hexgates coming in. Zeyu finding so much damage — there's the steal, but Zeyu takes it down! And the Pop Blossom doesn’t do nearly enough. They do lose two — they have three left still alive. Shattering Strike not doing too much as Doran and Gumayusi are able to take down the real Neeko. And now it’s even footing. Faker trying to find it. The Hextech Rocketbelt getting him into the fight. Now Viper in trouble. They try to keep him alive — but it does not work. Zeus trying to push them away. Him and Zeyu — I don't think it's going to be enough. T1 win the fight, but they don't take the Drake.

Continuing his struggle — and here, Viper — I don’t think needed to flash the initial needles that came through. Oh god, the chains are going to have to be flashed here by Zeka as Faker doing so much work and Oner is there with the follow-up. Hands the golden assist. And they’re going to look for a top lane outer turret. It’s again the side lane overload — we saw T1 do this so many times yesterday against KT, but also a lot in the last two years. This time it’s Zeus on the receiving end, instead of being the one that benefits from it.

And you know, it's not necessarily going to be okay. Faker — if he wants to auto that turret — might not be getting out alive. But either way, the thing about this side lane pressure too is that those were the big leads that Hanwha had — in the top and mid lane. So much agency in this game too, because you're playing a dive comp with this Ahri-Vi. You want to go onto a single target and blow them up. And then Keria could just wait and re-engage and ruin your whole setup so easily and give T1 those opportunities.

The Neeko obviously very strong in this draft — great with Kalista, powerful in lane — but you need your team. You need the setup. And you need to be the team that's getting the first kill.

Well, they're going to look for it here. Delight going to be able to use that Blast Cone, but he's down incredibly low and will get taken down. Possible overextension though, as the Orb of Deception does a lot of work — Faker dashing around the battlefield with his hijacked Spirit Rush.

Now Pop Blossom is going to find only one, but it’s Zeus — and that is a great target. Now looking for the jump — the Bullet Time doing massive damage. But Doran now looking to get on top of Viper, who is completely alone — and will get eviscerated. The wallets are so heavy here for T1, and they just take HLE out of the fight.

It was the fakeout from Keria. The double fakeout. It looked like it was just the clone coming towards them — but it was him. It was him. Zeka tries to react — but the biggest part of this is Delight dies, right? If you have that Magnet Storm — so many of these things go better for you. Maybe not the Bullet Time — I think Viper couldn't have gotten any more value than he did in that one. But there wasn’t any follow-up. They were so split. So Doran just runs at Viper — the Miss Fortune — immobile.

And now Zeka clashing with Faker. Yeah — chains not going to connect here. Delight will come in — but so will Keria. Magnet Storm picked up by Faker here — taking a fair bit of damage. But they've taken the Soul Point — they’ve gotten exactly what they want. Faker is able to keep himself alive.

Outside of Keria on T1, but Gumayusi having his — Oner having his — very important here for T1. I mean, T1 — they're going to have Fate's Call back in just 10 seconds. T1 with melees that can just rip you to shreds.

Speaking of being ripped to shreds — Peanut going to try and get over the wall. The flash is there for Oner, and he just knocks down the Vi. There is nowhere that Peanut is safe in this game.

So no jungler — let's see whether HLE can try and kill T1 before they take this Baron. It looks like it’s going to be impossible. Under 4,000 health as Delight goes in — finds the Magnet Storm. Let’s see whether they can get the kills though. Pop Blossom doesn’t do too much. They take down the Gwen, but this is still Baron picked up for T1. They go for the fight and they’re looking to try and turn it. Gumayusi takes down Zeka. They’ve dealt with this Ahri at the same time. And T1 say — we’ll just take everything.

Carrier potentially punished here — getting trolled by the observers. Oner, go check it out. Oh dear. No — I think it might be Peanut getting punished here. Just a little bit. Slowed down by the Rune Prison. The strike going to be coming up pretty soon here, and Faker comes on over — he's just going to escort Oner in and escort HLE out of this first game.

We can talk about the drafts, but for me, it's just the form of Hanwha Life. They look decent — they don’t really seem like they were ready for the high-tempo playstyle that T1 tries to punish. And he dies — and now he's not alive here for what is going to finally be Hextech Soul for T1. And this game could not be more over. It could not. That is going to be the soul picked up here for T1.

They're going to be able to push in this bottom lane. They've already taken the mid lane inhibitor. And Zeka is looking for a bit of bounty gold. And I assume T1 are okay with him taking it — because it's not going to save his Nexus.

We had two T1 predictors, and on our global side, we had several 3-0 Hanwha predictors. Hanwha Life came in as the massive favorites — but T1, having the momentum, carried on from yesterday into this first game for sure. I think a lot of people are rethinking expectations after this one. Yeah — me included. Feeling a little bit silly for some of my opening statements here. Because it did feel like HLE were the better team before, based on our assessment. But momentum is so powerful. And T1 — in this stadium — man, just feels like they are unlocked to an extra level.

Faker now picking up a Magnet Storm for himself. That is going to be two inhibitors. This is of course feeling like a little bit of ceremony — because this game is all but over. That is going to be a bit of an engage onto Doran, but he does go into the mist and now looks to fight four people. Going golden here — those big ol' scissors doing some work. There’s Magnet Storm finally. The Bullet Time coming in — but the wallets are so big. The Pop Blossom massive as well — and T1 just slaughter them in their own house. And they'll destroy it at the same time. T1 1-0 in the series.

These were some of the best highlights from today's matchup. Which moment was your favorite? Let me know in the comment section below. This is OP, and I’ll see you tomorrow. Take care.