We have four OTs in BDS versus Ruas as well, and here we go — relax, let's go, because you're about to have a wild ride. Oh, two players that are just so quick, and Ruas will strike first. They are number one in Zen and number two in Ruas when you look at them competitively.

Love that — it literally doesn't get any better than this. And there you go — it’s 1-1 immediately. Zen — it ends up being good, but not quite the world-breaking 1v1 that you'd expect from what we saw in that 3v3. It is going to be that level of quality from us. The reset just gets blocked out by Zen on that chance, but relatively low boost. Ruas trying to struggle back — gets 100, lands underneath. Ruas can take the shot — on target! Flies up for the double. Ruas will very much be there. Zen immediately turns on it, well-reads it, and will happily take that back to his own corner to get that midfield boost.

Zen playing them tight, and he's got that first grab. Both players are just so fast — like you cannot hesitate. You’ve got to jump as soon as you see Ruas catch that ball because that flick is just so deadly. You can't even catch it. Yeah, it kind of bounced off his car — you’re right. He just kind of popped it up above him, and then it bounced off the corner and in. I mean, the perfect shot.

Chance now for Zen to get a retaliation. The long shot won’t work on that chance. With 3:36, you see Ruas snuck out nearly — can't get back to it. One minute and a bit gone — chances for both these players to reign supreme over the other. So far, Ruas is undefeated versus Zen, as I said at the top of this game — 2-0 when these two have faced each other.

There’s no waffling, there’s no messing around with either of these players so far — and it will be good for Zen again. Gets the one, gets the second in quick succession — now at 3-2. 3:34 left. Left-hand wall is going to prove the next battleground. A shot flies on target. Zen very bravely going for that boost. Manages to just about sneak back in time and also get his own corner boost. Ruas very low, but rotates via the mid — both on 100s. Zen with one — goes to Musty. What are you supposed to do when you see a perfect Musty flick? It’s just one of the most beautiful things. It’s the smooth top of the yogurt that just looks incredible — you don’t want to break it.

It’s like you go to the ice cream shop and you order the single scoop, but they give you the double scoop — just for free. Vitality though, thanks to Zen, 5-3 up in this individual game now. Ruas now winning this kickoff — we’re gonna have like 20 goals again, is that what’s about to happen? Oh, I could go for 20. Yeah, 20 is good. Go on then.

Zen going to turn around quick — but he sees Ruas in the air, he’s gotta wait. Or rather, Zen has to wait. Ruas going to take an aggressive angle — he's just given Ruas a free goal. It was a little bit more awkward to see if he could beat down Ruas there. They're both in the same boat — both with very low boost. Took the risk for the reward. Falls the way of the rogue one.

Ruas has not let this game get out of control. Quick one — and he whiffs it. Ruas — there, did they take the aggression? I mean, you saw it — it was pixels off from even just making contact. Then it's at least contested afterward. But you miss it — you get punished. Oh, that's disgusting! And he goes bang bang. That’s what it was — from the hood of his car all the way to the back. Flicks it straight over Zen. Zen unable to deal with it.

But a shot just wide of target — you see Ruas has to stretch — and that's four in a row for Ruas. Zen needs to get something. The dunk does go just wide of the net. Boost very much in favor of Zen, but the mid boost now picked up by Ruas. Up 4-1 now — he's going there again. Manages to just sneak round another. High risk, another high reward — falling in favor of Ruas. And the aggression from Zen has just not worked out. Ruas has punished him every single time — five straight goals for Ruas.

1:45 — Zen has to try and wrestle back. That’s one up. Zen goes low with the challenge — but that’s the thing, man. Everyone asks — if they’re losing, can they both mix it up? They can. They have different playstyles they can go to. The aggression so far from Zen has become predictable. He’s got to mix it up, got to find a way in — but it’s so hard to ask. One of the best defenders in the world — maybe the best defender in the world — Ruas taking another shot.

Ruas just trying to dump that off — get some boost. He’s got it now. Zen — I don't know — fake challenge, forcing Zen to give that up. Zen still has control. Zen trying to force his way through on the ground. Got the 50, got the ball — oh my God. That’s what we talk about with the mix-ups! Full grapple on the play. Puts himself within one. He’s not out of it.

A minute remaining — the fight is in. Zen stinging like a hornet. Ruas not quite being able to be removed from the pitch with that demo attempt. And with a lot of boost on both sides, it's going to come down to those mind games. Oh — a tap over top of the in and out — the recovery is there. Ruas has to shoot it wider than net. Boost being grabbed by neither of these players. They find themselves low again. Zen to the ceiling — guess what? Ruas meets him there.

The 50 — so quick — goes sideways across the pitch. The lateral plays now. Some opportunity with 30 boost — goes low with it. He is learning. But as Ruas had a long shot — it's 8-4. One in every mode — especially 1v1. He won’t let Zen have his food. Ruas eating good right now.

25 seconds. This game is his to lose. Scrambling — same battle. Zen goes low with that challenge. But Ruas does — bumped into the ball. And the recovery — he manages to stay in the play. And these seconds tick down. Ruas bumps it up again. Zen's got full boost though. Ruas has nothing — he's only got one. He needs the corner. This is a chance for Zen. He needs to get in with time. The bump — he misses! Zen — it’s time. He's got none. Taken down.

A spectacular game from both players.