Doctorkev’s Anime Review Digest: 4

It’s been a while since I last did this. As part of the AniTAY writing collective, I regularly contribute to seasonal collaboration articles. When we first moved AniTAY from Kinja to Medium back in late 2020, I collated a bunch of these smaller reviews from the collab articles into three longer digests. In the last three years, I’ve written lots more reviews for these collabs that some of my readers may not have known were available to read.

From the Fall 2020 sequel guide (original page deleted in the Kinjapocalypse):

Is it Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? Season 3

Studio: JC Staff

Genre: Fantasy/Dungeon Crawling/Harem

About the series: Rarely has a series suffered such an off-putting and inaccurate English title as poor DanMachi. Granted, the direct English transliteration of the lengthy Japanese title is apparently more akin to “Is it Wrong to Have an Encounter in a Dungeon?”, but it isn’t a bawdy, trashy fantasy sex comedy as would inititially appear. Based on Fujino Omori’s long-running light novel series (up to 15 volumes for the main series and 12 for the spin-off), this is instead a straight fantasy heavily based on D&D RPG concepts, with a smattering of ancient Greek and Roman mythology for good measure.

Arising from the centre of Orario, the bustling town that serves as the series’ main setting, an enormous tower pierces the sky. Adventurers the world over flock to Orario to challenge the uncharted depths of the dungeon, and many engage the support of resident gods and goddesses to do so, joining their “familias”, akin to guilds, with each named god as figurehead.

White-haired protagonist Bell Cranel is a plucky young warrior with an optimistic heart and a strong work ethic. He becomes the first member of the down-at-heel goddess Hestia’s familia. Hestia is clearly besotted with Bell, though he has eyes only for the Loki Familia’s sword-princess wunderkind Ais Wallenstein. DanMachi follows Bell’s progress from inexperienced level 1 beginner to skilled warrior, and much of the fun comes from sharing in his triumphs over life-threatening situations. Bell has reserves of power and drive that even he barely understands, that the jealous Hestia wishes to keep to herself. Her thinly-veiled desire for his body and love causes her no end of aggravation because his apparently passive skill involves effortlessly adding other female characters to his loose “harem”.

Refreshingly for modern anime, this is not an isekai, and Bell — although growing in abilities — is by no means a self-insert power-fantasy protagonist. Bell’s world is complex and filled with fun and interesting characters all with their own backstories and motivations. Don’t be put off by the title — give it a try and catch up in time for the hotly-anticipated third season.

Time to Catch Up: 10 hours (+7 hours for spinoff/OVAs/Movie)

What You Need to Watch:

Essential: Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? Season 1: 13 episodes, Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? Season 2: 12 episodes

Highly recommended: Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? On the Side: Sword Oratoria: 12 episodes

Optional: Movie: Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?: Arrow of the Orion, Season 1 OVA: Is It Wrong to Expect a Hot Spring in a Dungeon?, Season 2 OVA: Is It Wrong to go Searching for Herbs on a Deserted Island?

Best Place to Catch Up: HIDIVE has everything in the U.S., U.K., and Australia, and everything but the original series in Canada, where you can find it on Crunchyroll or Netflix.

Yashahime: Princess Half-Demon

Studio: Sunrise

Genre: Fantasy/time travel/isekai/reverse isekai

About the series: A surprise sequel to the anime adaptation of beloved mangaka Rumiko Takahashi’s (Urusei Yatsura, Maison Ikkoku, Ranma ½, Rin-ne) 56-volume 1996 manga Inu-Yasha, Yashahime is to Inu-Yasha what Boruto is to Naruto but with girls, and demons rather than ninjas. Inu-Yasha followed the story of ordinary 15-year-old schoolgirl Kagome Higurashi who falls down a magical well into the past and pulls a cursed arrow from the chest of titular half-boy, half-dog demon (yokai) Inu-Yasha, releasing him from bondage. Tied together through mystical obligations, they travel Sengoku-period Japan on a quest for shards of the “Shikon Jewel”, in opposition to the evil Naraku who seeks the shards for his own twisted ends.

Yashahime is not written by Takahashi herself, though she does contribute main character designs. This sequel, set several years after the original’s conclusion, follows Moroha, the daughter of Kagome and Inu-Yasha (who must be quarter-demon, I guess?) and the twin daughters of Sesshomaru. The question on everyone’s lips, of course, is “who is Sesshomaru’s baby mama?” Eldest twin Towa somehow gets separated from younger sister Setsuna and ends up in the present where she is raised by Kagome’s family. After 10 years the twins are reunited but Setsuna has lost her memories and has trained as a demon slayer. Setsuna and Towa embark on a journey with their cousin Moroha to restore Setsuna’s memories. Rather than a boy-girl adventure story with constant romantic tension, this looks (at least initially) to be more of a girl-trio road-trip story through the demon-infested past.

Time to catch up: 77 hours (+optional movies: 6.5 hours)

What you need to watch:

Essential: Inu-Yasha: 167 episodes, Inu-Yasha: The Final Act: 26 episodes

Optional: Inuyasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time, Inuyasha the Movie: The Castle Beyond the Looking Glass, Inuyasha the Movie: Swords of an Honorable Ruler, Inuyasha the Movie: Fire on the Mystic Island

Best Place to Catch Up: Crunchyroll or Netflix in the U.S. and Canada, Crunchyroll in the U.K. and Australia.

From the 2020 AniTAY Deca-Dence review (also lost to the Kinjapocalypse)

Doctorkev’s Deca-dence review

What do you get if you mix the kinetic aerial combat of Attack on Titan and The Saga of Tanya the Evil with the bonkers creativity of Mob Psycho 100 and a weird amalgam of the design sensibilities of Studio Ghibli’s movies and Bandai’s Heybot? Surely an ungodly mess, right? And with a groan-inducingly terrible title like Deca-Dence, it has to be awful. Thankfully not — this deeply strange hot-pot of disparate influences is distilled into a perfectly-constructed 12-episode moonshine shot of pure fun. The last anime that was as economical and propulsive with its convulsing plot was 2018’s Planet With, and Deca-Dence surpasses even that.

It’s really hard to explain what makes Deca-Dence so good without spoiling the show’s basic premise. That first episode arranges all the pieces for what looks like a great sci-fi/fantasy anime about a mobile post-apocalyptic city and its embattled denizens who fight massive monsters. That alone is a promising start for a short anime series. But Deca-Dence has so much more up its sleeve with a massive, early, head-spinning twist that upends every viewer’s expectation. Although it does remain the show it initially purports to be, it adds several extra dimensions — truly becoming Peak Anime: Hypercube Edition. This plot unspools into hyperdimensional space, baby. (Imagine that line read by Space Dandy for maximum impact.)

Protagonist Natsume is a typical anime lead — plucky, full of energy and ambition, and willing to stand against opposition and indifference to pursue her goals of using weird anti-gravity tech to smash squishy enemies and drain them of their lifeblood using massive hypodermic syringe weapons. She’s a great focal point for audience sympathy as she’s curious about her world and motivated to progress within it.

Natsume’s natural counterpoint is mentor figure Kaburagi — a man of multiple faces, all of them tired. His world-weariness (to the point of terminal resignation) is challenged by his chipper apprentice, and their relationship is the plot’s strong central pivot — always helping to drive the action, even when they spend entire episodes — and seemingly worlds — apart. Natsume overcomes horrors like the loss of her father and the mutilation of her arm with a sunny smile and solemn determination. Kaburagi is inspired to finally transcend his self-imposed restrictions to help them both break free from the metaphorical and physical chains that bind both them and their comrades to a meaningless, demeaning and degrading system that literally churns up the bodies of those who refuse to conform to the authorities and their soulless society.

Deca-Dence is a timely and creative reminder that in these days of late-stage capitalism, digital demagoguery and fake-news-filled media, “sticking it to the man” is as important an ambition as ever.