Democratic politician assassinated, another wounded in targeted overnight shootings

Washington: Two Democratic politicians in the US state of Minnesota have been shot in their homes in the middle of the night – one of them fatally, along with her husband – with police conducting a large-scale manhunt for the assassin.

Melissa Hortman, a member of the Minnesota House of Representatives, and her husband were shot and killed in their home in Brooklyn Park, Minneapolis about 3am on Saturday (Sunday AEST) by a man impersonating a police officer.

Earlier in the night, senator John Hoffman and his wife were also shot in the nearby suburb of Champlin. They underwent surgery in hospital and authorities were hopeful they would survive.

Police have named the suspect as Vance Luther Boelter, 57, a former political appointee to a state government board, and say he is on the run. Residents in parts of Minneapolis have been instructed to shelter in place and not open the door to any lone individual appearing as a police officer. The FBI has issued a reward of up to $50,000 for information leading to his arrest and conviction.

Boelter served two terms on the Minnesota Workplace Development Board, the New York Times reported, and did not report any political affiliations when he joined. The board aims to improve business development in the state. A friend told the Times that Boelter voted for Donald Trump in last year’s presidential election and strongly opposed abortion.

Brooklyn Park police chief Mark Bruley said investigators found a “manifesto” in a vehicle allegedly used by Boelter that “identified many lawmakers and other officials”. CNN reported there were nearly 70 names on the hit list. A Minnesota official told The Associated Press Boelter’s writings also contained information targeting prominent lawmakers who had been outspoken in favour of abortion rights.

Minnesota Governor Tim Walz – who was Kamala Harris’ running mate at last year’s presidential election – said the killing of Hortman “appears to be a politically motivated assassination”.

“An unspeakable tragedy has unfolded in Minnesota,” he said. “Our state lost a great leader and I lost the dearest of friends. She is irreplaceable and will be missed by so many.

“This was an act of targeted political violence. Peaceful discourse is the foundation of our democracy. We don’t settle our differences with violence or at gunpoint.”

Harris also paid tribute to Hortman in a post on X, in which she also said political violence had no place in the US.

“Elected officials must be safe to do their job on behalf of the people. The hate and division that dominate our political discourse must end,” she said.

Both Hortman and Hoffman were members of the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party, which is affiliated with the Democratic 
Party.

The shootings come at a volatile time in the United States, with protests due to take place across the country to coincide with a massive military parade in Washington DC marking the 250th anniversary of the US army, along with the birthday of US President Donald Trump.

Organisers in Minnesota cancelled both the “No Kings” march and the “Kick Out the Clowns” march that were due to be held on Saturday as part of national demonstrations against the Trump administration. Authorities said Boelter had “No Kings” flyers in his car.

Minnesota’s Public Safety Commissioner Bob Jacobson said: “This is a dark day for Minnesota and for democracy, but we will not allow fear of violence to define who we are or how we move forward.”

Trump said he had been briefed on the incident, describing it as a terrible shooting that appeared to be a targeted attack against state lawmakers.

“Our Attorney-General, Pam Bondi, and the FBI, are investigating the situation, and they will be prosecuting anyone involved to the fullest extent of the law,” he said.

“Such horrific violence will not be tolerated in the United States of America. God Bless the great people of Minnesota, a truly great place.”

Drew Evans, Superintendent of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, said Hoffman and his wife were shot about 2am, and police attended the scene. At about 3.35am, officers proactively went to check on Hortman at her home, where they allegedly encountered Boelter.

“[He] immediately fired at them and they exchanged gunfire, and then the individual was able to escape during that exchange of gunfire,” Evans said.

Bruley said the suspect attended Hortman’s home using what appeared to be a police vehicle, which was parked in her driveway with the lights on when officers went to check on her. The individual was wearing a vest with a Taser and a police badge.

“It was not a real police officer. This was somebody that clearly had been impersonating a police officer, using the trust of this badge and this uniform to manipulate their way into the home,” Bruley said.

The car was seized, and the suspect was now on foot, he said. He advised any residents to call 911 if someone appearing to be a police officer appeared at their door. Legitimate officers were working in pairs.

Former US congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot in the head in 2011 and now runs a national gun violence prevention organisation, said she was “horrified and heartbroken” by the shootings.

“My family and I know the horror of a targeted shooting all too well,” she said. “An attack against lawmakers is an attack on American democracy itself. Leaders must speak out and condemn the fomenting violent extremism that threatens everything this country stands for.”

NSW Liberal MP for Davidson Matt Cross knew Hortman as a classmate from their time at the Harvard Kennedy School in 2017-2018. He said he was heartbroken to learn of her death.

“It’s horrifying and impossible to comprehend,” he said.

“Melissa was humble, warm and genuine. She would always light up a room. This is a profound loss to her family, her community, and to all who knew and admired her.”