Trump and Lee Kuan Yew similar in ‘common sense’ approach: Hegseth

Both men showed a ‘willingness to work with others, while respecting mutual self-interest,’ the US defence secretary said

US President Donald Trump’s instinct to “challenge old ways of doing things” that no longer work and his emphasis on “common sense” bear striking similarities to how Singapore’s founding leader Lee Kuan Yew steered the city state from vulnerability to global relevance, American defence secretary Pete Hegseth has said.
In a wide-ranging address on Washington’s Indo-Pacific approach at the Shangri-La Dialogue on Saturday, Hegseth drew parallels between the “historic men”, describing both as having a “willingness to work with others, while respecting mutual self-interest”.

“Standing here in Singapore, I think this approach lines quite well with the pragmatic style of Singapore’s legendary prime minister, Lee Kuan Yew,” he said.
“Across three decades, he built this country into one of the world’s most important hubs of finance and innovation. Like the late prime minister, President Trump’s approach is grounded in common sense and national interests.”
Washington, he added, rejected any “paradigm that makes conflict inevitable”.

“We are applying this common sense approach to defence here in the Indo-Pacific and throughout the world, and we believe the results speak for themselves.”

He affirmed American commitment to the Indo-Pacific and plans to push ahead with a Washington-led multilateral forum, among other issues. This is his first time attending the dialogue.

The absence of Chinese Defence Minister Dong Jun cast a shadow over the conference, marking the first time since 2019 that Beijing’s top defence official has skipped Asia’s premier security summit.
The defence secretary’s address comes a day after he met Singapore Prime Minister Lawrence Wong, when the two leaders highlighted the strength of US-Singapore defence ties and reaffirmed shared commitment to regional peace and stability.
Hegseth is the first cabinet official from the current US administration to call on Wong since the Singapore prime minister assumed office earlier this month.
According to Singapore’s Ministry of Defence, the two “reaffirmed the excellent and long-standing bilateral defence relations” between their countries and exchanged views on regional security developments.

Singapore and the US have a long-standing agreement allowing American forces access to the city state’s military facilities. Originally signed in 1990, the deal was last renewed in 2019 by then-prime minister Lee Hsien Loong and Trump.
During his address, Hegseth also said the US was “not interested in the moralistic and preachy approach to foreign policy of the past”.

“We’re not here to pressure other countries to embrace or adopt policies or ideologies. We’re not here to preach to you about climate change or cultural issues. We’re not here to impose our will on you. We are all sovereign nations. We should be able to choose the future we want to build,” he said.

We’re not here to pressure other countries to embrace or adopt policies or ideologies
US defence secretary Pete Hegseth
Pragmatism is frequently highlighted as a hallmark of the late prime minister Lee’s approach to governance, and his legacy continues to loom large on the city state even a decade after his death.

In March, Singapore leaders marked his 10th death anniversary with tributes to his leadership and reflections on his contributions to the nation, while thousands lined the streets to pay tribute.

Wrapping up, Hegseth said Trump espoused the same “common-sense policies” that he claimed had underpinned Singapore’s transformation under Lee into one of the world’s great success stories.

“It is with sage leadership and strategic vision and a sense of urgency that Lee Kuan Yew turned Singapore into one of the world’s great success stories. Many call it the Singapore miracle,” he said.

“That’s what common sense policies can achieve, and that’s precisely what President Trump’s vision is all about. President Trump is a leader of peace, a man of peace, a force of peace, and together we will achieve that peace through strength.”

In an April parliamentary sitting, Wong criticised the American tariff imposed on Singapore as “not actions one does to a friend”, and described Washington’s sweeping tariffs as a repudiation of the very system it had once championed.
The world’s largest economy enjoyed a trade surplus of US$2.8 billion in its goods trade with Singapore in 2024, an 84.8 per cent rise from the previous year, according to data from the Office of the United States Trade Representative. Two-way trade also rose to US$89.2 billion over the period.

Singapore has forged closed economic ties with the United States for decades and is the only Southeast Asian nation to have a free-trade agreement with the superpower.